Pipetting routines


One can uptake or release liquid. One can also mix liquid with pipetting.


Uptaking liquid
---------------

A. Take x volume of a liquid from a tube with a lot of this liquid
  1. Move plunger down equivalent with x volume
  2. Lower tip into liquid
    - height should not be too shallow, or you will uptake air
    - height should not be too deep, or you will displace liquid with the tip out of the tube
  3. Move plunger up with certain speed
    Optionally, lower the tip as you are uptaking liquid
  4. Delay to wait for viscous liquid to catch up
  5. Move tip up from the liquid
  
B. Drain full tube - removes all liquid from the tube
  1. Move plunger down equivalent with x volume
  2. Lower tip into liquid
    - height should not be too shallow, or you will uptake air
    - height should not be too deep, or you will displace liquid with the tip out of the tube 
  3. Move plunger up, simultaneously lower tip
  4. reach to the bottom of the tube with the tip before moving plunger all the way up
  5. while on the bottom, move plunger all the way up
  6. lift tip 0.5mm up, wait for all liquid to get sucked in
  7. Remove tip from the empty tube
  
C. Drain tube without worrying about displacing liquid
  1. Move plunger down equivalent with x volume
  2. Lower tip all the way to the bottom
  3. Move plunger all the way up
  4. Delay for liquid to get sucked in
  5. Lift 0.5 mm up
  6. Delay for liquid to get sucked in
  7. Move tip up from the empty tube
  
  
Releasing liquid
----------------

A. Put liquid into a tube, emptying tip
  1. Move tip inside the tube, 1/4th of all height; tip does not touch liquid
  2. Move plunger all the way down
  3. Delay
  4. Touch tube side with the tip (get rid of the liquid drop)
  4. Move tip out of the tube
  
B. Pipette liquid into another liquid, wash tip
  1. Move tip inside the tube, until touches liquid
  2. Move plunger down according to the amount of liquid in the tip, but not more
  3. Move plunger up while tip is still in the liquid
  4. Move plunger down
  5. Delay
  5. Repeat N times
  6. Move tip out of the liquid, but it should still be inside the tube
  7. Move plunger all the way down
  8. Delay
  9. Move tip out of the tube
  
C. Fill several tubes with the same liquid
  For example, filling 10 tubes with 100 uL of water each; 
  or filling 10 tubes with 1000 uL of water total, but different volume for each tube
  1. Move tip into tube 1, not touching anything
  2. Move plunger down for volume 1
  3. Move tip out of tube 1 into tube 2
  4. Move plunger down for volume 2
  ...
  At each step, check if volume to pipette is higher than actual amount in the tip; if higher; move to liquid uptake step.
  

Mixing liquid
-------------

A. Pipetting up and down
  1. Move tip into a tube, touching the liquid
    - height should not be too shallow, or you will uptake air
    - height should not be too deep, or you will displace liquid with the tip out of the tube
  2. Uptake liquid, moving tip down simultaneously
  3. Delay
  4. Release liquid, moving tip up simultaneously
  5. Delay
  ... Repeat N times
  6. Move tip out of the liquid, but still inside the tube
  7. Move plunger all the way down
  8. Delay
  9. Touch the wall to remove drop.
